In the previous chapter, we have solved problems using
breadth first search technique
Now we are going to solve problems using
Depth first search technique
But before that, let us understand the difference between BFS and DFS
In BFS,
We traversed the tree level by level from the root
But in the DFS, the search starts from the root
node and continues to explore the same branch as far
as possible
Once it reaches null, it will come back to the
previous level and explore the next branch as far as
possible.
In BFS, we used the queue data structure to
track nodes level by level. In DFS, we use a stack
data structure or recursion to track all the nodes.
because here once the branches over we need to
come back to the last stage and continue the same
process.
So recursion or stack will be the best option
for this scenario
as both Stack and recursion works in last in
first out principle. Using DFS technique we can
solve problems like printing paths of a binary tree printing
tree paths with the given sum, etcetera. From the next
videos let us solve problems using DFS to understand it better.